h2. Redmine smart issues sort plugin

Smart issues sort plugin is a Redmine plugin that replaces default sort with one more intellegent.
This sort method honors issue tree and parent - child relationships.

Also this plugin adds category support for queries and several parent sort options.

h3. Smart sorting

Plugin replaces default Redmine issues sorting with one more intellegent. This type of sorting always puts children issues of parent issue after parent.

Also it eleminates inconvenience when root issues sorted by parent issue are sorted by their ids instead.

Because this kind of sorting has to sort all the issues in query it could be quite long compared to default for big (>3000 issues) queries.

Plugin solves following issues in Redmine: *#7907, #10048*

h3. New query options

* Plugin adds categories support for Redmine queries and displays queries grouped by categories.
* Plugin adds new option to queries which allows to always sort query by parent first thus keeping hierarchical issues structure

h3. Global plugin options

* *By default sort by parent issue first*
 Automatically sorts issues by parent issue first if not explicitly disabled in named query
* *Use default Redmine sort if no parent sort involved*
 Allows to fallback to default Redmine sorting if no parent sorting involved for speeding up query process
* *Put issues without values in sort fields on top (default Redmine behavior)*
 Puts issues with empty fields (ie Start Date or Due date) foremost, otherwise puts them in the end of the list

h3. System files modifications

* Plugin aliases +Query+'s methods _issues_ and _issue_ids_
* Plugin aliases +Gantt+ method _sort_issues!_
* Plugin aliases +BetterGantt+ method _sort_issues_' if plugin *redmine_better_gantt_chart* installed
* Plugin adds two new columns to the +Query+ model (*:category* and *:sort_by_parent_first*)
* Plugin modifies following Redmine view: *queries/_form.html.erb*. Changes are between +VVK+ comment lines

h3. Installation

# Install plugin "Plugin views with revisions":http://www.redmine.org/plugins/redmine_plugin_views_revisions if you do not have it installed
# Follow the Redmine plugin installation steps at: http://www.redmine.org/wiki/redmine/Plugins
# Run rake task
 *rake redmine:plugins:process_version_change RAILS_ENV=production*
# Restart your Redmine web servers (e.g. mongrel, thin, mod_rails)

h3. Compatibility

* Plugin runs in *production mode* only
* Please perform plugins migrations before running the plugin
* During migration plugin turns on option *sort by parent first* for all existing queries

h3. History

0.3.1

* Redmine 2.x compatibility

0.3.0

* Plugin depends on "Plugin views with revisions":http://www.redmine.org/plugins/redmine_plugin_views_revisions for further Redmine compatibility

0.2.5

* Compatibility bugfixes

0.2.4

* Compatibility with Redmine versions before 1.3.2 added

0.2.3

* Trackers now sorted by their position, not their name - the way Redmine does

0.2.2

* Initial release
